---

layout: post
title: "Analyzing 5.8 Through European Stories"
date: 2024-07-26
tags: touhou
permalink: 

---

Article Status: Currently only Yuuka is done. There are some notes on Schütz and Elly.

Treat the article as a test for a [digital garden](https://www.technologyreview.com/2020/09/03/1007716/digital-gardens-let-you-cultivate-your-own-little-bit-of-the-internet/) on this website.

---

[5.8 is an unique Touhou CYOA on THP](https://www.touhou-project.com/forest/res/29818.html). 

The main character sees the world different from everyone else, the setting was mysterious, and the Touhou characters were familiar yet different from the usual depictions in Touhou fanfiction. These depictions differed with influences of European stories for the Touhou characters in 5.8. 

Spoilers from here on out, as the article will explain the depths of the Touhou characters in 5.8.

---

In 5.8, Yuuka tells Schütz about human conventions like birthdays, clothing, or procreation, though Yuuka's tellings can be considered at best a "curiosity". In addition, Yuuka is called Sister by Schütz, and Schütz is called brother. Lastly, Yuuka bleeds mud like any flower does. 

The best way to sum up with Yuuka is when Remilia tells Yuuka about "silent wall admiring".

> Only the most anthropocentric of humans could hope to undertake it.” Remilia pauses, her demeanor darkening in an instant. “Perhaps, could it be that you are not up to the task?”

> “Hah! You underestimate the profound depths of my humanity, my friend~” Sister swells up.

> “. . . So noble. So human. I am in awe,” the vampire commentates, stony faced.

[Post 31175](https://www.touhou-project.com/forest/res/31030.html#postform)

It shows Yuuka is a creature that tries human behavior, yet its attempts at human behavior are quite "unhuman" as far as Remilia is concerned.

This description sounds similar to Hanns Heinz Ewers's Alraune with regards with Alraune being a sadistic girl with her abuses on her peers with embarrassing incidents.

 The story also pays service to the original myth of Alraune with details of Alraune's floral connection and that Alraune deals fortune at the cost of future misfortune.

> It brings luck in peace and in war, is a protection against witchcraft and brings lots of money into the house. It is good for prophecy and makes its owner lovable. It brings women love magick, fertility and easy childbirth. It makes people fall madly and wildly in love with them.
> 
> Yet it also brings sorrow and pain whereever it is. The house where it stays will be pursued by bad luck and it will drive its owner to greed, fornication and other crimes before leading him at last to death and then to hell.

Alraune by Hanns Heinz Ewers. Translated by Joe Bandel.

Curiously, Remilia can tell Schütz is doomed. Perhaps Yuuka is one of the factors play into the cursed fate Schütz has.

> “You are doomed. I am the only one who can help you.” Remilia leans forward into the stone table, hands crossed, a meaningful smile on her face and scarlet glint in the eye. “And I will help you.”

[Post 31175](https://www.touhou-project.com/forest/res/31030.html#31175)

---

But that isn't the only German refence in 5.8; Schütz himself is a reference to Der Freischütz. The story of Der Freischütz tells of a marksman who made a devil deal to get seven bullets that will aim perfectly at the target, but the seventh bullet will kill his beloved. 

In 5.8, Schütz is a hunter and has a curse to see the true form of most Youkai

---

In 5.8, Elly is described to be a death god.

Elly appearance could make her like the Ankou.

---

Farther Research:

- Why does Patchouli have feathers on her neck? Does asthma have historical depictions?
