---
layout: post
title:  "Analyzing 5.8 Through German Stories"
date: 2024-06-31
tags: touhou
permalink: 
---

Spoiler Warning for 5.8. Also a rough article in terms of writing, but the notes should be there.

[5.8 is a unique Touhou CYOA on THP](https://www.touhou-project.com/forest/res/29818.html) as everything within the story was a mystery to its readers. As such, it is best to read 5.8 blindly, especially if one wants to thinks about the choices as they come up with the story. 

---

Someone once decribed Yuuka as Alraune. Given canon, it could be described as a superficial comparsion with both being creatures of earth that are known to be sadastic women. Of course, that only applies with fanon Yuuka and not flower youkai Yuuka.

But then I considered Alriune from Project Moon and this interpretation of Alraune focuses on the theme of unwanted resuscitation. This is explained by Alriune's flowers being in bloom for eternity beyond and the lost hope to "return to dust".

https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/library-of-ruina/images/b/bd/Abnopage_Spring%E2%80%99sGenesis.png/revision/latest?cb=20201106214944

In 5.8, Yuuka tells Schütz about human conventions like birthdays, clothing, or procreation, though Yuuka's tellings can be considered at best a "curiosity". In addition, Yuuka is called Sister by Schütz, and Schütz is called brother. And lastly, Yuuka bleeds of mud like any flower does. This description all sounds too close to Alraune, especially when Remilia tells Yuuka about "silent wall admiring".

> Only the most anthropocentric of humans could hope to undertake it.” Remilia pauses, her demeanor darkening in an instant. “Perhaps, could it be that you are not up to the task?”

> “Hah! You underestimate the profound depths of my humanity, my friend~” Sister swells up.

> “. . . So noble. So human. I am in awe,” the vampire commentates, stony faced.

It all tells that Yuuka is a creature trying to be human, yet enlicates beahvior unbefitting of a human.

But that isn't the only German refence in 5.8; Schütz himself is a reference to Der Freischütz. The story of Der Freischütz tells of markmans who is make a devil deal inexchanged for seven bullet that will aim perfectly, but the seventh bullet will kill his beloved. In 5.8, Schütz has a curse to see the true form of most Youkai and break the Great Hakurei Border.





Elly is described to a death god in reference to Ankou.

Alriune
